Alright let's take a look at some of
the stuff that we need to do to run a
JUnit test. Now our project already has
the spring-boot-starter-test coming in
and let's go over to our Maven projects and take a look at what that brings in
for us. Plugins, but we wanna look
at Dependencies and we can see, where is
it,
there it is down at bottom. And we have
the spring-boot-starter-test and we can see a Spring and a junit,
assert, mockito, hamcrest, jsonassert. It's kind of funny how dependency
resolution works in IntelliJ.
Maven thinks that a spring-core
is being brought in by this but we also
have a spring-test. So get a variety of
dependencies being brought in just by
having that test starter there. But the
primary one that we want is junit and
that's the one that we're gonna be
utilizing for our unit tests. So let's go
and close this window and we do have a
test that was created by default. So this
is a very typical test. So we have the
@RunWith, and that's the SpringRunner. And that is going to bring up the Spring
Context and we are saying that's the
@SpringBootTest and so this is an
integration test actually, not a unit
test. So this is an integration test and
we can come in and just do a right click
and say Run and IntelliJ did a quick
build and we can see that it runs. It brings
up the Spring Context and come up and
should shut right down. So that test
quote-unquote past because the context
did load successfully. If the context did
not load for whatever reason this test
would fail. So very, very simple test. Let's go ahead and create a test now.
We'll create an actual unit test and
come into Category and if I remember
right, we'll come in here. So I just did alt-enter and so it asked me
to create a test and this is within
IntelliJ.
So I'm gonna say I want a JUnit4 test and let's go ahead and say what
do we wanna do. Let's do these couple
tests here. Say OK.
IntelliJ has generated this and of course
we're gonna add this to Git so you
can see it and let's create a property
here for Category.
And what I wanna do is create
a setup and this is gonna be a test
that something I'll run every time. And
here, we're gonna use the @Before. And
this is gonna save us some headaches
here so we're gonna say category and
this is gonna initialize that
property. So whenever we run we will get
a new category. So we have three test
methods here and it is going to, we will
create a new Category object before each
test method is executed.
So let's write a quick test here. Now
we're gonna say that we are setting
the category ID to a Long 4. Now we can
do assertEquals and we're gonna say,
Long expected, Long actual. So do that,
category and say getId(). And let's
refactor this a little bit and what I
wanna do is create a new property for
that Long. I like to have a
specific property that we're testing
because right now we're creating a value
several times and this can lead to
errors in your test. So let's do idValue.
Make sure we can use the autoboxing
here.
And by autoboxing, what's Long, a
lowercase long is gonna be a
primitive Java and I'm saying go ahead
and do that. With the 4L, so
we're going to 4 Long here and
let's replicate that here and also in
our assert. So that's a lot cleaner in there.
I like how that looks and now we can do
a right click and say Run and we can now
see that test has run and if I come
down here, let's close that window. You
can also run all tests just to do that
and we'll see it instantiate and we see
that the Spring integration test,
the default one that brings up to
contexts, takes a lot longer and then you
can see that it took like almost no time
to run the actual unit test. Even
though they don't have any logic in them
but they did get executed there. So you
can see how much faster actual unit
tests are over integration tests.